# Developing Components

We follow the [Stencil Style Guide](https://stenciljs.com/docs/style-guide) for naming and code style conventions. Please read through it.

Some of the important guidelines are:

- Create a separate directory for each component. The directories name should be the same as the elements Custom Element name (**ino-component-name**).
- Each component consists at least of the files `.tsx` and `.scss`. The name of the files are the same as the Custom Element name. See above.
- The `readme.md` is auto-generated by Stencil.
- The `commit-scope-enum.js` is auto-generated on each commit. This file is needed by the commit message linter. Only the strings contained in this file are allowed to use as scope of the commit message format.

## Stateless / Controlled / Dumb Components

We decided to use stateless components so the data flows from top to bottom. This makes sense as most of the frameworks do a DOM diffing and don't see what a component itself is doing. So rather then changing the state directly, we always emit events to denote that something should change. So if the consumer ignores such an event, nothing will happen.

* Only the attributes and children with their attributes describe the current state of the component.
* The state never changes as long as the input properties are the same.
* The component never modifies its host attributes.
* User actions (clicks, key events, ...) only trigger events. State is untouched.

For examples and details please refer to the **Events** section below.

## Properties

We have native and custom properties in components. For example, the `ino-button` element has native properties like `disabled` and **prefixed** custom attributes like `ino-color-scheme`. This differentation helps the user to understand the underyling functionality and prohibits incompatibilities with native elements.

For each property, we provide a short jsdoc when defining a property. This comment should contain a short and precise description of the property's functionality. Take time since this description is compiled by stencil and used in the storybook.

## Events

Similar to properties, we differantiate between native and Custom Events. Native events are triggered by native html elements like `<input>` and bubble out of the scope automatically. For example the button element uses a `HTMLButtonElement` internally that emits `click`, ... events).

**Important:** Native events are not defined in the component. For this reason, we provide an explanation of their behaviour in the `readme.md` and add them to the **Usage** section.

Every time we provide a Custom Event for a component we always set their action in **present tense**.

Here are some examples to make it easier for you to decide how the name of the event should be:

### Example 1: The ino-input Component

* Input: `value` (Attribute, @Prop())
* Output: `valueChange` (Custom Event, @Event())

#### Description

The name of the input param `value` is contained in the name of the event param `valueChange` to denote the relation between them. In this example this means that if the `value` should change, the consumer (this is the framework that uses and therefor controls the component) decides if the value should change or not. Speaking for the `ino-input`: If the user types any key into the input field, the component **will not** change the value, but will instead emit an event that says:

*Hey consumer, the value should change. Here's the value. But decide you if you want to change the value. You can set the @Input `value` with the value I gave you, then I will update my value. If you don't update the value, I'll not update the value und the old value remains the same*.

### Example 2: The ino-chip Component

* Input: `ino-removable` (Attribute, @Prop())
* Output: `removeChip` (Custom Event, @Event())

#### Description

In this case the chip component has a little x-icon if `ino-removable` is set. If the user clicks the icon an event is emitted that says:

*Hey consumer, the x-icon is clicked and the chip component should be removed. But decide you if you want to remove me.*

Here's a list of some example events we use:

```
checkedChange
updateChipSet
removeChip
valueChange
clickEl
changeFile
hideEl
activeTabChange
loadEl
unloadEl
...
```

## Documentation

Stencil generates a `readme.md` for each component which consists of two parts:

- An editable header.
- An auto-generated documentation of attributes and properties as a table.

We extend the generated docs by adding more information of how to use the component in the header section.

Normally, we...

- ... provide a **Usage** section to describe the API as HTML element. This is in the form of a generic element containing **all** attributes and the data type (`<ino-button name="<string>" ...></ino-button>`).
- ... explain extraordinary attributes.
- ... explain the behaviour of native and custom events it it's more complex.
